Chapter 1: The Twenty-First-Century Entrepreneur

Learning Objectives
After studying this chapter, you will be able to:
1. LO1-1 Explain the rationale behind starting an entrepreneurial business.
2. LO1-2 Discuss the history of entrepreneurship in the United States.
3. LO1-3 Identify the type of people who are entrepreneurs.
4. LO1-4 Describe the impact of entrepreneurial businesses on society.
5. LO1-5 Discuss the worldwide impact of entrepreneurial businesses.
6. LO1-6 Define an entrepreneurial business.

ANCESTRY.COM

DNA testing has rapidly become an accepted and trusted approach for paternity tests, criminal prosecutions (proving both innocence and guilt), and even hunting down criminals from cases decades old (Pillowcase Rapist and The Golden State Killer). This was not always so. Although Charles Darwin proposed the idea of DNA testing, it did not become a reality until 1985.

Today DNA testing boasts an accuracy rating of 99.9999 percent and while the use of it for criminal prosecutions gets a lot of the headlines, the reality is that most of the use is for personal exploration. The largest company in the industry by far is Ancestry.com, boasting more than 15 million completed samples in its database as of May 2019. The company was formed as a combination of two companies—one founded as a genealogy publishing company in 1983 and the other as a floppy-disk family history software company in 1990.

Ancestry.com has bought and sold many operations since its founding as it transformed into the DNA testing/genealogy-tracking company that it is today. Technology that simply did not exist previously has allowed the firm to evolve and change over time. This transformation includes moving into the testing of DNA.

By the early 2000s the company was focused almost solely on allowing people to pay a fee to search for their ancestors on an impressive database of census records. The firm had over 1 billion records digitized by 2001. The DNA testing option began rather meekly in 2002 with a partnership company that processed DNA kits sold by Ancestry. The company realized the potential early on for aligning their searchable database with DNA mapping. By 2016 the company had expanded its product offering (now on multiple platforms) to over 30 countries.

The focus in the past few years has been on the DNA kit. This kit is sent directly to individuals who generally spit in a tube that is sent to a testing lab. Some 6-8 weeks later a report arrives electronically with various information provided. Leading competitors to Ancestry include 23andMe, CRIgenetics, MyHeritageDNA, LivingDNA, Vitagene, and Helix among many others.

While growth in the industry is expected to slow, the business model that most offer includes a recurring revenue stream that makes the industry quite attractive. Ancestry went public in 2009 and then was bought out by a private equity firm and went private again in 2012.

Questions
1. What are some of the technological changes that have allowed firms like Ancestry.com to grow?
2. Do you see opportunities in an industry right now that have similarly been triggered by changes in technology?
3. What dangers do you see in widespread use of DNA testing?

Why Start a Business?
LO1-1: Explain the rationale behind starting an entrepreneurial business.

There are many reasons that individuals decide to start a new business. A lifelong dream, a desire to make a difference in the lives of other people, a realization that you can solve a nagging problem for yourself and others, your sudden unemployment, a desire to be your own boss, a response to an opportunity brought to you, and many more. These reasons have been shared with us by individuals who are part of the tremendous pent-up desire by many people to be an entrepreneur. Although people are regularly bombarded with stories about the new businesses that exploded into massive companies (Amazon, Facebook, Grubhub, Etsy, iRobot, etc.), most new companies stay well under the press radar. Yet many of the firms you never hear of are very successful and are an essential element in any economy.

The evidence of entrepreneurial businesses' importance to the economy can be seen in the following 2019 statistics from the United States Small Business Administration (SBA):
- 99.9 percent of all businesses in the United States are small.
- 48 percent of private sector employees are in small businesses (60 million out of 126.8 million employees in the United States).
- 33.3 percent of known export value are from small businesses ($29 billion out of $1.3 trillion).

Furthermore, these entrepreneurial businesses are growing rapidly. Small businesses created 9.6 million net new jobs from 2000 to 2018, or just under 65 percent of net new job creation in the United States. Large businesses were responsible for just 5.2 million.

Beyond the statistics, there are also countless stories of successful entrepreneurial new ventures in every community around the world. One needs to remember that every business in the Fortune 500 started out as a new venture. Each one was the brainchild of a single individual or a small group of people. Recall from history that entrepreneurs such as Henry Ford (Ford Motor Company), Ron Brilland and Pat Farrah (Home Depot), Thomas Edison and Charles Coffin (General Electric), Barney Kroger (Kroger), Ralph Lauren (fashion), Sam Walton (Walmart), Estee Lauder (cosmetics), Oprah Winfrey (media), and Richard Branson (Virgin) all started out as small-business owners.

To illustrate how entrepreneurial businesses can grow to be on the Fortune 500 list, consider how in 1976, Steve Jobs worked with Steve Wozniak to design and sell the first Apple personal computer from Jobs' parents' garage. To raise the approximately $1,600 in capital to start the business, Jobs sold his microbus and Wozniak sold his calculator. By 1979 Apple had earned over $200 million. In 1985 Jobs was pushed out of the company. He went on to found another computer firm NeXT and funded the spinout of the computer graphics division of Lucasfilm, which he renamed Pixar. In 1997 as Apple floundered, Apple bought NeXT and brought Jobs back to Apple to lead the turnaround at the firm. Jobs would go on to usher in an entire category of products that individuals did not even know they needed, including the iPad, iPhone, and iTunes.

We do not mean to suggest that every new venture will ultimately grow to dominate some aspect of world business. What it does mean is that new ventures are the foundation for all businesses. Some grow large; some do not. Regardless, they all initially go through a process much like the one you will study in this book, and that process of business development from scratch is quite different from the processes followed by established businesses. The process of developing, initiating, and running a new business is so unique that it has developed into one of the most sought-out areas of study at colleges and universities around the globe.

The success of entrepreneurial businesses occurs partially because they are simply more focused than their large corporate counterparts. Entrepreneurial businesses are not burdened with having to create and manage policies, procedures, corporate layers of management, and public stockholders, so new businesses are free to put all their energy into satisfying the needs of their customers. A customer calling on a big jewelry chain to get a battery changed in his or her watch will find that the chain either does not perform those services or treats the effort to change the battery as a burden. The same customer calling on a locally owned jewelry store, however, will most likely get immediate assistance and gratitude for the business. The local business has the advantage of an owner whose fortunes are directly tied to the success of the firm. The average manager of a large firm, although interested in the success of the company, does not have any personal capital at risk. If the firm does not do well, the manager moves to another firm, whereas an owner may lose his or her savings.

Pierre Omidyar of eBay is an excellent example of a small-business owner with a vision that exceeded expectations. He took his personal website which he used to auction off items he found and created a phenomenon.

Large firms can obtain economies of scale in some industries. In other words, large firms can sometimes do things more efficiently because of their ability to operate on a larger scale than a small firm. For example, advertising is typically much cheaper per unit if purchased in large volume. Thus, a large firm such as Walmart can buy its advertising much more cheaply on a per-unit basis than can a small retailer. Similarly, in manufacturing it is often much cheaper on a per-unit basis to produce large volumes of a product than to produce small volumes. This is the reason that small car manufacturers must charge an extraordinarily high price to cover their costs. Tesla Motors, which produces an all-electric suite of vehicles, has taken the battery vehicle concept and crafted it into a set of high-performance cars. By 2019 the firm was selling over 350,000 vehicles. Today most major cities in the world have a Tesla storefront. An individual can charge his or her car at home or at one of the approximately 14,500 Superchargers located in 1,636 Supercharger stations around the world. While it still takes considerably longer time than filling with gas, the effort to grow charging stations will at some point allow an individual to charge his or her car essentially in the same manner (albeit not with the same speed) that a person fills up with gas in a combustion engine. Many cities provide prime parking for such charging stations as the cities seek to limit pollution and encourage more electric cars. The infrastructure may allow a critical mass of charging options at some point. The expectation is that the sales of electric cars will expand even faster and the economies of scale may allow Tesla and the many new electric vehicle (EV) automobile makers to lower the cost for their vehicles.

Many years ago the apparent efficiencies of very large businesses led some economists to predict that small entrepreneurial businesses would be largely replaced by a much smaller number of large businesses. The exact opposite actually happened. The ability of entrepreneurs to respond more quickly and to operate more effectively (more focused on the specific needs of customers) led to a growth in the raw number of entrepreneurial businesses rather than a decline.

This text develops the methods, applications, and processes that lead to the idea generation, investigation, start-up, and successful management of a new entrepreneurial business. How you grow your new business is a function of how you start your business. We firmly believe that the development and implementation of a new business is part art and part science. This field has been studied for a long time and there is a well-developed body of knowledge that should be the foundation of all your efforts. This text lays out a process for the "science" of forming and managing a new entrepreneurial business in a clear, sequential manner that is rich in its practical application as well as well grounded in research. The "art" is a matter of practice, example, and the skill of the founder or founders of the new business. The text encourages you as you go through the process of developing your ideas and work to develop your own personalized business plan. Although we will not be with you as you actually found your business, the goal of this text is to provide you with the fundamentals of starting the business and help you to develop your business into a functioning entity. Beyond all the statistics about how many new businesses fail (and many of them do fail), research (including our own studies) has found that there are three critical elements that an entrepreneur must solve for success:

1. An effective sales generation model. You are only as good as your pipeline. You must develop the ability to generate consistent and growing sales.
2. Sustainable operating profit margins. Profit margins are key to successful businesses.
3. Being properly financed. It is crucial that you have sufficient resources (either yourself or by raising funds) to get the business to the point where it is self-funding.

We believe that the principal way to be a part of the group that survives and thrives is to thoroughly plan and lay a solid basis for the business.

A Brief History of Entrepreneurial Businesses in the United States
LO1-2: Discuss the history of entrepreneurship in the United States.

Before we start looking at entrepreneurial businesses today, it is important to note that entrepreneurs have always been a critical part of the country's success. Alexis de Tocqueville was a Frenchman who toured the United States in the early 1830s and wrote a famous analysis of the country. One of his observations was that the United States was not so much a nation with ventures that were marvelous in their grandeur, but instead a nation of innumerable small ventures. The history of the United States has always been intimately tied to entrepreneurial businesses. In fact, until the mid-1880s, almost all U.S. businesses were still relatively small.

The 1880s saw the initial development of the nation's large industrial base. It was from these beginnings that the robber barons developed. We associate their names today not only with great success but also with great abuses in business. They took advantage of the economies of scale that were suddenly possible with the industrial age and quickly came to dominate new sectors of the economy (e.g., Andrew Carnegie's domination of the steel industry). However, the robber barons were coming to dominate industrial sectors that had not existed historically, so they generally did not put smaller operations out of business. In fact, smaller entrepreneurial businesses continued to thrive during these times as new businesses grew up to serve the needs of these new industrial sectors.

The Great Depression of the 1930s was harder on entrepreneurial businesses than on larger more mature businesses, and as a result it encouraged industrial concentration. The outcome was that following World War II, entrepreneurial business as a percentage of the U.S. economic output began to decline. It was during this time that Charles Wilson, secretary of defense for President Eisenhower, made the famous statement that "what is good for General Motors is good for the nation." The implication was that what was good for big business would be good for all of the people in the country.

In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the nation was in economic turmoil as many of the large firms that had grown to dominate the U.S. economy were having difficulty, owing to global competition. Entire industries, such as steel and automobile manufacturing, were in decline. It was during this time that President Jimmy Carter described the country as in a "malaise." The Japanese were in the dominant economic position in the world, and the widely discussed fear was that the United States was in decline much as Britain had been 100 years earlier. However, the decline of the large multinational firms in the United States opened new opportunities that entrepreneurial businesses rose to fill. The economic growth and success that the nation experiences today is due primarily to the entrepreneurial firms that found an economic footing and grew very rapidly. Today many of the multinational firms in the United States are technology firms that began in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The vast number of businesses that start up each year are responsible for much of the innovation that pushes established companies to new levels.

Therefore, as you begin your study of entrepreneurial businesses, you should recognize that you are examining a domain that has historically been the backbone of the economic success of the nation. Entrepreneurial businesses today continue to play a dominant role in the ability of the nation to adapt quickly and to make economic progress.

Figure 1.1 Business Time Line highlights key events including: 1657 Seaside Inn founded America's first business; 1717 founding of Covenant Life Insurance; 1723 birth of Adam Smith; 1750 beginning of the Industrial Revolution in England; 1763 birth of John Jacob Astor; 1773 Boston Tea Party; 1774 First Continental Congress; 1775 American Revolution begins; 1783 Revolutionary War ends; 1792 New York Stock Exchange founded; 1825 Erie Canal opened; 1828 Baltimore & Ohio, first U.S. passenger railroad founded; 1835 Samuel Morse invents a commercially viable telegraph; 1848 California Gold Rush begins; 1848 U.S.-Mexican War ends with Mexico ceding almost half its territory to the United States; 1859 first commercial producing oil well; 1869 Transcontinental Railroad completed; 1878 first commercial telephone exchange; 1886 American Federation of Labor formed; 1896 first motion picture shown on a public screen; 1903 Wright Brothers make first flight; 1908 Ford introduces the Model T; 1914 Panama Canal opens; 1929 Great Stock Market Crash; 1939 first commercial TV broadcast; 1958 launches first credit card; 1975 Microsoft founded; 1980 U.S. government bails out Chrysler; 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) takes effect; 1994 Amazon founded; 1998 Google founded; 2010 Instagram founded.

Who Are Entrepreneurial Business Owners Today?
LO1-3: Identify the type of people who are entrepreneurs.

One of the huge advantages of starting one's own business is that it provides the setting where the business owner can be the boss. As we will discuss in Chapter 2, the owners of a new business are the most important single factor in the business's success. The new business owners have both the opportunity and the responsibility to lead. However, although many new business owners want this independence, they also need to recognize they are not alone in the business; there are other important stakeholders of their entrepreneurial business. These are individuals or other organizations that may impact the success of the business and depend on the success of the business for their own livelihood. Stakeholders include key suppliers, customers, and employees—all of whom are critical to the success of the new business.

It is true that the rewards of owning a business extend far beyond the financial. That said, the financial rewards to entrepreneurs can be stunning. In their book entitled The Millionaire Next Door, Thomas Stanley and William Danko highlight statistics that demonstrate the potential for financial rewards from starting a business. For example, they point out that almost two-thirds of U.S. millionaires are self-employed, despite the fact that self-employed people make up fewer than 20 percent of the workers in America. They go on to state that 75 percent of these self-employed millionaires are entrepreneurs; the other 25 percent are self-employed professionals, such as doctors and accountants. So, close to 50 percent of the millionaires in this country are entrepreneurs. These are the individuals who start a business, run it well, and over time build their financial success. Most millionaires are individuals you know in your community. These individuals achieved their success by taking the bold step to actually start and run a business. This is the same step you can take at any time.

The financial rewards can be overwhelming for successful entrepreneurs who often start with little or no thought of where the company could grow or what it might be. Elon Musk has a pattern of entrepreneurial success. He first created the online city guide Zip2, which was purchased by Compaq in 1999 for $307 million. He then created X.com, an online payments site that became PayPal, which was acquired by eBay for $1.5 billion. Musk used those proceeds to found private rocket company SpaceX in 2002 and electric car company Tesla Motors in 2003. Not all entrepreneurs are immediately successful. Travis Kalanick dropped out of UCLA in 1998 to work on a Napster-like file-sharing company, Scour, which was sued for a quarter of a trillion dollars in 2000 before closing. His next company, Red Swoosh, another file-sharing firm, sold for $19 million in 2007. His next company was Uber, which he founded in 2009. Mark Zuckerberg and his roommates started Facebook as a way to connect with other students at Harvard (its first incarnation was a site designed to compare two people at the same time and decide which one was "hotter").

EXERCISE 1
1. Name some successful entrepreneurs you personally know.
2. What types of businesses do they run?
3. Why do you think they are successful?
4. How would they define success?
5. How did these individuals start their business?

How Does Society Benefit?
LO1-4: Describe the impact of entrepreneurial businesses on society.

New business development is an important driver of the economic success of a community, a region, and a state. As a result, civic leaders increasingly look up to entrepreneurs as a means to promote economic strength. There are some well-known areas where such efforts have been widely publicized, such as North Carolina's research triangle; Austin, Texas; the Denver–Fort Collins Innovation Corridor; Silicon Valley; and Boston's 128 corridor. These areas are well known for generating new employment with entrepreneurial ventures, providing a growing tax revenue base, and providing a basis for significant improvements to the area's economic vitality. The success of these areas has encouraged others to seek to promote entrepreneurship to a much greater degree. A program called Economic Gardening is growing across the United States to help start new entrepreneurial businesses in an area. Littleton, Colorado, has used the program to add 15,000 jobs to the regional economy.

Entrepreneurial businesses act as a catalyst for societal change in other ways as well. They have the ability to garner profits in markets that have been ignored by large corporations. Large organizations will regularly ignore business opportunities if they do not believe the results will generate high profits, whereas entrepreneurial businesses are more flexible and willing to pursue a wider range of opportunities. The owners and employees of the entrepreneurial businesses have an understanding of the local community not easily obtained by a large conglomerate. For example, after a large military base or factory closes, there is obvious economic damage to that region, as the businesses that catered to the base or factory must either reset their target market or close their doors. Examinations of these areas suggest that a crisis such as a military base closing can lead to the formation of a much higher level of new business formations. Those individuals who have lost their jobs generally do not wish to leave the area (or cannot afford to leave the area). These individuals may have been satisfied with their location, and while they dreamed of starting a business, it was only when faced with the challenge of unemployment that they took the risk to start their dream. Studies have found that people facing a crisis from closure of an existing business often form new businesses, which, in many cases, can turn the economic fortunes of the area around.

The federal General Accounting Office (GAO) did an analysis of the impact of the closure of military bases. It found that in cities with base closings including Salt Lake City, Kansas City, and San Jose, the areas around the bases had unemployment rates lower than the national average and income growth higher than the national average. There had been large initial job losses in these communities; however, the state and community leaders had responded to the closing of the bases with tax breaks and programs to support the development of new businesses. The result was that numerous new businesses rose up to fill the economic gap that had resulted from the closing of the bases.

In Aurora, Colorado, the Fitzsimons Life Science District was developed on the site of the former Fitzsimons Army Medical Center. Within two years of its opening, the area had 17 start-up or early-stage bioscience businesses housed there. Today it is a thriving center of research, employment, and new business growth. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was once severely depressed economically as the U.S. steel industry faltered. However, by 2016 the downtown area was a center of renaissance as technology companies like Google, Facebook, and Uber established offices in the area to tap local talent from the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University.

ETHICAL CHALLENGE
What motivates you to start a business? As we will discuss in Chapter 2, there can be multiple motivations. Finance is clearly a strong motivation. Individuals desire money, and clearly the rewards for entrepreneurship can be substantial. A key motivation can also be other things such as control over your life and doing those things you enjoy. It is simply not true that success in an entrepreneurial business can be achieved only with brutally hard and long hours. Many entrepreneurs make a very good living working limited numbers of hours each week. These entrepreneurs could clearly make more money in their life, but they structure their business as a means to live rather than why they live.

Every entrepreneur must think through what his or her motivations are for the business and structure the business accordingly. Entrepreneurs must be honest with themselves and their potential partners and investors. We place this consideration here in an ethics box to start because we think the absence of honesty about entrepreneurs' motivations with themselves and others is a critical ethical decision that should be made at the very formulation of the firm.

QUESTIONS
1. What do you see as your key motivations for starting a business?
2. If you had to allocate percentages to lifestyle, money, freedom, and family for motivators, what would they be?

Entrepreneurial businesses provide more than just jobs; they also provide a means to meet the varied demands that individuals face in a society. Individuals can become frustrated with large corporations over the lack of promotion opportunities or the inflexibility of the corporations in dealing with the needs of family and children. Starting a new business may allow individuals to meet these demands in their lives in a way that large corporations are simply unwilling to do.

The number of women starting new businesses has increased to the point where they are now the largest single group of new business founders. In part, this growth has come from the fact that women are often frustrated by what is referred to as the "glass ceiling." This refers to the fact that women, like minorities, may be hired by large firms but experience limits placed on their advancement. As a result, these women leave the large firms and start their own businesses. Women entrepreneurs also start businesses to allow them to have greater control over their lives, so they can better balance their family's and children's needs. A new business provides a valuable safety valve so that the citizens of a society can address the demands and needs in their lives.

Heather Schuck worked in investments and then in a psychiatric treatment home before her frustration with work–life balance helped push her to start her own business, Glamajama, which makes trendy baby clothes. Founded in 2003, the firm's products today can be found at national retailers such as Bed Bath & Beyond, Nordstrom, Target, and J.C. Penney. Using her experience, Schuck wanted to encourage women to achieve business success while also being allowed to stay focused on family, so she later started the very popular GlamaLIFE.com online community, which connects women interested in business. This community is built around the ideas in Schuck's 2013 book entitled The Working Mom Manifesto: How to Stop Hoping for Happiness and Start Creating It. The central argument is that women can create successful businesses around family rather than forcing the family to be centered around the business.

Entrepreneurship Around the World
LO1-5: Discuss the worldwide impact of entrepreneurial businesses.

New and growing businesses are critically important around the world. The World Bank estimates that one of the strongest factors in the growth in any nation's Gross National Product (GNP) is the presence of entrepreneurial small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Today there are widespread efforts in almost all nations to encourage the development of small and medium enterprises. These governmental efforts range from tiny contributions of capital or time to large, multidimensional programs that cross the boundaries of multiple nations.

Some of the efforts to encourage SMEs around the world are quite small, but still have a big impact. For example, microloan programs have been in existence for years to encourage self-development. These loans are often for only a few dollars each and are made directly to entrepreneurs, often women. The businesses founded through such loans can be as simple as delivering lunches, weaving baskets, or washing clothes. However, the success of such loans has been substantial, with great strides being made in many desperately poor nations. It is interesting that the repayment rate on such loans is typically 99 to 100 percent, a much higher repayment rate than on most types of loans. The success of these loans has resulted in an increasing dedication of the U.S. aid budget to microloans for developing nations.

At the other extreme are nations that have prepared a full range of programs to encourage new venture start-ups. A program in Singapore is aimed at encouraging high-technology ventures among highly educated individuals. The government is providing a range of services and facilities to assist in the development of these ventures and encourage the founding of firms that might result. Although these two examples are at different extremes, they both demonstrate a high level of interest and investment by governments in small-business initiation. The result of these efforts is that the pace of small-business start-ups is increasing around the world.

EXERCISE 2
1. What motivates your interest in entrepreneurship?
2. What opportunities do you see in your community?
3. Have these opportunities attracted other businesses, large or small? Why or why not?

What Is an Entrepreneurial Business?
LO1-6: Define an entrepreneurial business.

It is clear from the previous discussion that new businesses have benefits for individuals and society within the United States and around the world. Individuals typically associate small and entrepreneurial businesses together. For classification purposes, the U.S. government considers any business with fewer than 500 employees to be a small business while the European Union caps that number at 50. We would suggest that a business with almost 500 employees is actually a large firm requiring formal personnel policies, specialized services, and an administrative structure that is in no way close to the reality of most small businesses. For the vast majority of people, the businesses formed will have far fewer than 500 employees.

We suggest that there is a further level of definition that is needed for clarity. Multiple terms can be used to refer to the same types of businesses including entrepreneurial businesses, small businesses, sometimes as small-to-medium-sized businesses or enterprises (SMBs or SMEs), and family businesses. These terms are roughly equivalent and do not specify the differences between the two main types of new business. We see two main categories of start-up businesses.

The first category of start-up businesses includes those formed as high-growth, often high-tech, ventures that have several unique characteristics and are generally venture capital–backed firms. Venture capital start-ups can be characterized by the following descriptions:
1. The businesses are well-funded by venture capital or angel investment. In fact, without such capital it is virtually impossible to begin this particular type of venture. Venture capitalists are a specialized type of investor; they typically do not invest less than $2 million and in return they expect extraordinary returns.
2. These businesses are formed with a harvest plan in place; this is a plan to exit the business that allows the investors to take advantage of growth. A harvest plan may include selling the business to another firm, selling it to a group of investors, or even participating in an IPO (an initial public offering of stock). Size is the deciding metric in a potential public offering or sale to a larger organization.
3. As a result of the harvest plan, these firms are organized to grow as quickly as possible and are generally heavily laden with debt. Many are harvested before they can achieve positive net cash flow.
4. They have a developed organizational structure.
5. They often hire an experienced president to grow the company.
6. They tend to develop operations in multiple locations very shortly after the initial investment.
7. They are inherently risky operations whose growth is dependent on the exploitation of unknowns in the market (a new invention, unique patents, etc.).
8. These businesses either start or grow quickly to employ a relatively large number of employees.

The second category of business is a more common type of business and is the focus of this book. These firms are most often referred to as entrepreneurial firms and are defined by these characteristics:
1. The start-up is self-funded or funded by those close to them.
2. The development plan is oriented around positive cash flow.
3. The management structure is designed to take advantage of the skills of the founder or founders.
4. The operation is designed in the image of the founder(s).
5. The business is oriented toward the personal goals of the founder(s).
6. The number of employees may be zero or as few as one and typically would not be expected to grow to more than 50 to 100.

When we discuss entrepreneurial businesses throughout this text, it is this second category of firms to which we refer. Such entrepreneurial businesses are the type you are much more likely to found than are venture capital–backed firms. This is not to suggest that a business founded as an entrepreneurial business does not sometimes become a capital-backed business. Although Facebook or even LinkedIn was founded as an entrepreneurial business, we would more accurately describe either of them as a venture capital–backed business, since both quickly required millions of dollars of investment from venture capitalists to grow. In contrast, the businesses of the majority of millionaires discussed in the book The Millionaire Next Door almost always started as entrepreneurial businesses. These individuals made their fortunes in areas such as lawn care, plumbing, and electrical work, and their businesses were almost all founded in a manner consistent with the second category of business. This second category of business is also what typically will be found outside of the United States. The presence of venture capital for start-ups is limited outside of the United States. Often even funds that say they are venture capitalists are in fact only providing funding for mezzanine or mature, existing firms that are looking to expand.

Although some of the concepts discussed in this text are applicable to venture capital–backed firms, the focus in this text is on the systematic designing of a successful entrepreneurial business start-up. The U.S. Census tracks employment by number of employees (among many other statistics) and the latest census reports indicate that firms with fewer than 99 employees represent 76 percent of all firms in the United States, and also represent approximately 33 percent of all full-time employees in the United States.

Business Plans—Another Difference in Types of Firms

Another critical difference between an entrepreneurial business and a venture capital–backed firm is in the size and detail required in their initial business plans. An entrepreneurial business's resources are significantly more constrained than those of a venture capital–backed business. Whereas the venture capital–backed firm generally develops a business plan as a promotional tool to be sent to potential investors, the entrepreneurial business develops a business plan as a guide for the running of the business. Many ventures seeking capital hire professional consultants to assist them in the development of their business plans; in contrast, we strongly advise all entrepreneurial business owners to develop their own plans as a part of their process.

EXERCISE 3
1. Do you have any initial ideas for a new business? Write these ideas down. As we go through the course, you will be asked to evaluate your business idea in light of the concepts presented in that chapter. Most ideas will undergo significant evolution as you begin to study the topic more.
2. How many employees would your initial business require? Why?

A venture capital–backed business plan runs from 25 to 45 pages long, though we have seen many that are more than 100 pages. The business plan for a small business should be relatively short (15 to 25 pages) and should be developed in a manner that helps the small-business person understand the industry, the firm that he or she wishes to develop, and what will be needed to create success in that business. Thus, the business plan for a new entrepreneurial business is developed with three goals in mind:
1. To be a guide to managing the business in its early development.
2. To provide a self-evaluation: Putting the information down in writing allows for evaluation and honest analysis.
3. To provide potential closely held investors with the critical information necessary to evaluate the key criteria of the business: its cash flow, management team, and competitive advantage.

The business planning process that we develop in this text is a very practical and logical guide for the establishment and initial management of a new business. We do not discuss the long, intricate business plans that are sometimes written to attract venture capital. Instead, you will develop a working document that is grounded in the needs of the new entrepreneurial business. A well-thought-out business plan has heightened importance for the new business as a tool for you to think through a wide range of issues, as most new businesses will not actually obtain financing from big-money investors. This type of business will either be self-funded or obtain financing from friends and family. These types of investors are not looking for a slick five-year formal plan; instead, they are looking for a document that explains the value of the business and how it will succeed.

Therefore, you should note the following:
1. No cookie-cutter business plan programs. We will not use any of the cookie-cutter business plan programs that are available. If you google the term business plan, you will find any number of programs on the Internet that encourage you to plug in information and allow the program to "generate" a plan. We believe such programs really inhibit the process of designing a business. Each business plan, much like each business, should have its own voice, feel, and presentation. We suggest to you that a good business plan is best developed by the individual(s) contemplating the business, not by paid consultants who will have none of the enthusiasm of the founder(s). The fact that potential investors to an entrepreneurial business will be those closest to the founder makes it critical that the entrepreneur(s) seek to ensure the chances of success by doing thorough planning and thinking. It is one thing to lose money and close a business if the investment comes from investors you know casually. However, if the investors are your parents, in-laws, grandparents, or siblings and the business closes, it can be truly painful and may, in fact, cause ruptures in the relationships you hold most dear. A well-designed business plan has already helped the founder(s) consider every aspect of the new business and allows everyone else involved to have a true "feel" for where this opportunity is heading.
2. You should plan to develop the elements of your plan as you finish each chapter. This text is designed for you to have a full business plan crafted by the time you reach the end of the book. Crafting that section of your plan along the lines developed in the chapter leads to a more comprehensive and well-designed plan that is fresh in your mind as you write. The final section of the book has a fully developed entrepreneurial business plan and a full discussion about each section of that plan. The plan in the appendix is one developed by students as a class project. Our hope is that you will be able to produce an equally detailed plan in this class. The business plan you produce should ultimately be a good solid start on a plan you could use to begin your own business. You will want to refine the plan more after you leave the class, but the class will provide you with the tools to begin the process of forming your own business.
3. Do not be intimidated by the effort needed to bring forth a business. It is a daunting task to think about all the aspects of crafting a new business. It should be done in pieces with each piece fitting into a whole picture. At the end of every chapter, you should ask yourself whether the business you are designing still makes sense. There is as much value in deciding not to pursue a particular business idea as there is in actually starting a business. It is a process; take it step-by-step.
4. Craft a one-page pitch for your business. We will discuss this several times in this text, but it is crucial that you develop an attractive, one-page pitch about your business as you go through the process of developing your business plan. It clearly lays out the crucial information about the new business idea and provides an effective starting point for every potential supplier, employee, or investor.

Figure 1.2 One-Page Pitch Sheet example: The ToolGym.
The ToolGym: A gym-like facility and atmosphere provides access to the tools and expertise necessary to allow users to pursue their interest in woodworking. We solve the problem of niche woodworking tool availability and variety and eliminate the common barriers to entry in pursuit of these interests such as personal time, space, and money.
Business Summary: Operating under a similar guise as a gym membership or cloud computing model, the user wants access to assets without acquiring, setting up, and maintaining the equipment.
Initial Product Offering: We will provide all access to the tools, workspace, storage, and expertise for woodworking hobbyists and professionals under one roof. Our pilot will consist of one location, strategically positioned, whose benefits offer high density of target demographic as well as ease of materials access.
Customer Problem/Target Market: The ToolGym solves the problem that exists with any expensive hobby: The resource utilization typically does not commiserate with cost. Much like SaaS models in technology, ToolGym solves this issue with a consumption-based model that commoditizes time, money, and accessibility for the woodworking hobbyist. Our target market is the trade craftsman and fine woodworking segments where the cost-to-utilization ratio unbalance exists.
Management Team: Our executive team has an extensive experience in developing companies from incubation to exit or sale with a deep domain knowledge of the trade craftsman and woodworking industries. Our finance expertise is based on years of financial strategy consulting deeply rooted in emerging markets and hypergrowth opportunities. Our sales and marketing team is highly skilled in direct and indirect (channel) sales strategies and leverages a wealth of market analytics expertise to execute market entry and sales growth initiatives.
Our Customers: The woodworking hobbyist who is constrained by the time, space, and money required to own and maintain a workspace to tackle significant woodworking projects. The woodworking beginners—those with entry-level skills but the desire and resources to pursue. The trade unions in need of a training facility or apprentice program as well as schools that have dropped shop classes but have an interested audience of students.
Sales Strategy: Full immersion into the woodworking hobbyist culture using positioning (location) and partnerships (with fine/rare woods and finishes suppliers) that will add instant credibility to the services resources we deliver.
Marketing Strategy: Classes for beginners. Partnerships with suppliers, storage facilities, and industry trade shows. Storage for projects in progress.
Competitors: Every hobbyist garage and/or home woodworking space within our target demographic.
Competitive Advantages: Exclusivity—the ToolGym will offer a line of unique tools and tool accessories. Partnerships with fine woods stores, given their limited supply, adds immediate credibility and exaggerates the importance of being first to market.
Risks: Inability to grow membership. Liability; insurance requirements necessary. Highly skilled labor. Target audience messaging. Space and tool use optimization.
What we need: Phase 1: $225,000 for 20 percent equity in the ToolGym. Equals 12 months of operating expenses. Cash flow positive at 13 months.

Lean Start-Up

The approach we have in this text is consistent with a concept you may hear often—lean start-up. The term lean start-up indicates that a start-up business will need to rapidly change. Rather than pursuing a fixed business idea, you should visualize the start-up as an experiment. The focus is on building a business that generates something the customer that is an early adopter actually desires. The lean approach means seeking a model that is scalable—or able to build into something bigger. The approach we have detailed here fits with this approach. The lean start-up seeks to shorten the product/service cycles by quickly testing and experimentation of a product. The goal of this book and of the lean approach to business start-up seeks to iteratively build products or services with a particular focus on early customers. This process requires constantly testing the business's products/services with real customers and incorporating their feedback into the entrepreneurial effort. The result is that your ultimate business may look very different than what you initially start. One key to this model that we stress later in the text is measuring your outcomes. Your measures of success—financial and otherwise—must be exacting as you build a quick understanding of your actions and their outcomes. One key to the lean entrepreneurial process and where the term originates is the start-up must be lean. To make changes, an entrepreneur must be flexible. If you have invested heavily in a piece of equipment, for example, you may be unwilling to abandon it when it is clear that this is not what the business needs. Thus, the entrepreneur must recognize that change will be the nature of the business, and so whether such an investment is helpful or confining must be evaluated by the entrepreneur. The key for the entrepreneur is the adaptation. Keeping any production or action simple can quickly be eliminated if it does not generate the success the entrepreneurial team is seeking. We stress throughout the book that a plan is useful as a discipline to think through concepts and ideas. However, the goal is not to generate a long, involved document that does not change. From day one, the entrepreneurial team must be flexible.

Summary

This chapter began by discussing the impact that new businesses have on the economy. A brief history of new ventures was discussed, with the observation that every business you can think of, regardless of size, was started by one person or a small group of people. Given that, there are still two very distinct types of businesses: (1) those that are funded by large amounts of outside venture capital with the intent of growing them as fast as possible and (2) those that are primarily in business for the benefit of the founders and their families. The second group is far more prevalent around the globe and is the focus of this text. The remainder of the chapter set up three main principles we want you to remember: (1) No cookie-cutter business plan programs should be used, (2) build your own business plan along with the chapters in this book, and (3) this is a process, so take it in bite-sized pieces. The concepts of a lean start-up were discussed and will be incorporated throughout the book.

Key Terms
- economies of scale
- Fortune 500
- harvest plan
- stakeholders
- United States Small Business Administration (SBA)

Review Questions
1. How do entrepreneurial businesses impact the economy?
2. Beyond some classic examples (Steve Jobs, Elon Musk, Michael Dell, Larry Page, and Sergey Brin), name several entrepreneurs who have grown their businesses into major organizations.
3. Explain what is meant by the science and the art of starting and managing a business.
4. How have entrepreneurial businesses impacted the growth of the United States?
5. Why does "profit as a goal" present an ethical challenge to new business owners?
6. What differentiates an entrepreneurial business from one that is a venture capital–backed business?

Individual Exercises
1. What types of new businesses interest you most and why?
2. What aspects of those businesses are particularly appealing to you?
3. Do you see yourself as an entrepreneur in the next five years?

Group Exercises: Interview an Entrepreneur
Early in this course, every person in the class should interview an entrepreneur. You have wide flexibility as to the types of entrepreneurs you select. However, each entrepreneur must be the original founder of the business or the current owner and should not be your close relative. Prepare a report on the entrepreneur you interviewed. The report should be no more than three typed, double-spaced pages long, and cover three primary areas. First, discuss the background and characteristics of the entrepreneur, as well as the history and nature of the business. Second, discuss lessons learned by the entrepreneur as he or she related to you. Third, include your evaluation of the entrepreneur, and state what you can personally take away from the experience. You should plan to make a short (five- to seven-minute) presentation on this individual to the rest of the class.
